
--- Reading CIS311 Final Project Rubric.pdf ---
Shopping cart Grading Rubric  
Group:   Team:    project  :     members : 
 
Functionality 1: cart ( 3.5)     
Display products (1)  
 
 Products displayed  From database  As images   
Product details ( 0.5) 
 
 
 Display selected 
product details  From database  Allow 
quantity   
Add to cart button ( 0.5) 
 
 
 Check quantity 
against  stock   Add item s Reflect in cart 
image product  
Checkout (0.5)  
 
 
 
 Display all products 
in cart  Calculate total for 
each product  Calculate 
total for all 
products  Display all 
products in 
cart by clicking 
cart image  
Allow modification in 
cart(delete, modify, empty) 
(0.5) 
 
 Delete  modify  Empty   
Buy product (0.5)  
 
 Empty cart  Update database  
detect quantity  
 
   
Functionality  2: admin ( 3)     
Authenticate (1)  
 
 Check against 
database  If ok authorise else 
give msg  
 
 Security  
(can’t display 
the admin 
pages such as 
the “edit 
products” 
page and see 
the name of 
the admin 
and the 
logout button 
unless admin 
is loge in)   
Add product (1)  
 
 
 Page to add  Insert db  File upload 
button  Appear in 
products  
Search to delete and update (1)  
 
 Search for product  Modify  
 
Delete  Reflect 
modify in 
database  
 
 Reflect delete 
in database  
 
Cookie  (Past Purchases)  (1) 
 
  
Style ( 0.5) 
  
Javascript  ( 2) 
Validate  and any JS  Form Validation and Help window  
 
Implication of Project  (2)  
 

--- Reading CIS311_ShoppingCartProject.pdf ---
Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University   CIS 311: Web -based Systems     
College of Computer Science & IT          Course Project  
  Term 2  2025-26 
 
1 
 Online Shopping System  
Every group is required to develop an online shopping system for a shop of their own 
choice.  Groups should be formed of 5-6 students.  
Description  
The application will allow customers to select products. Every  selected item will then  
be added to the shopping cart. Customers, can  view, modify and delete the content of 
their shopping cart any time. The shopping cart number of items and total price are 
displayed on every page of the online shop. Customers  can c heckout at any time but 
once th ey checkout their order can’t be modified and their order details will be stored 
in a database.  The shopping cart content will then be cleared.  
The application will also enable  authenticated administrators to manage their shop 
products online (add, modify  and delete  products).  
 
Functional requirements  
Task1: Database design  
The web shop products are stored in a database. Depending on your choice of shop 
you need to design a database with appropriate  tables and fields. The  following 
fields are mandatory. However, you will defiantly need more tables and fields (color, 
size,). 
Id: a unique identifier  for every product.  
Name: name of the product.  
Picture: picture of the product.  (Saved as a file name in the database)  
Stock: number of available items.  
Price: unit price of the product.  
……. 
…….  
Database must be normalized. Tables’ primary keys and foreign keys must be 
specified in the ER diagram.  
 
Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University   CIS 311: Web -based Systems     
College of Computer Science & IT          Course Project  
  Term 2  2025-26 
 
2 
 Task  2: Web Design  
The web application will include several pages.  Groups are free to choose the 
content,  number and naming of their pages. However, their project should include 
all the required functionality.  
• Pages must be designed using html and css.  
• Pages should have similar appearance.  
• Pages should not exceed 10  
• Images must be stored in images directory under the web application.  
• inappropriate  or copyrighted images must be avoided.  
As an example,  the web application can include the following pages  
1. Home or main page that can also include the products.  
2. Product detail page.  
3. Checkout page  
4. Administrator authentication page  
5. Managing products page.  
6. Contact us page.  
 
Task  3: Display Products.  
Products details must be retrieved from the database. All the shop products must be 
displayed by an image of each product on the products page.  The customer can 
select any product by clicking on it.  
 
Task  4: Display Product Details  
Display selected product details on the product details page. Allow the customer to 
input the required quantity in an input box and add the items to the shopping cart by 
clicking  add to shopping cart  button.  
Task  5: Add to C art 
The customer entered quantity will be checked against the product available stock. If 
the required quantity is available,  the customer order will be added to  the shopping 
cart. Otherwise , appropriate  message indicating unavailable required quantity will be 
displayed. Total for each item is also displayed ( unit price * quantity). PHP sessions 
should  be used to achieve this functionality.  
 
Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University   CIS 311: Web -based Systems     
College of Computer Science & IT          Course Project  
  Term 2  2025-26 
 
3 
 Task  6: Checkout  
Customer can check out by clicking checkout  button in the product detail page or 
checkout ( can be a shopping cart image) available on every page of the web 
application.  
Customer orders will then be displayed in the checkout page. The  customer will be 
allowed to delete, modify quantity of any order or delete all orders ( empty shopping 
cart).  
The customer can also buy all products in the shopping cart.  
Task  7: Buy 
The customer can click on the buy button on the checkout page . The quantity field of 
every product will be updated in the database. The shopping cart will be emptied . 
Task  8: Authenticate Managers  
Managers  will be  authenticated  in the Administrator authentication page. Managers  
will enter their id and password in input boxes their input will be compared with  the 
mangers accounts in the database. If a match is found they will be granted authority 
otherwise, appropriate message will be displayed.  
Task  9: Add New Product  
Authenticated  managers  can add new products . For every product,  relevant fields 
must be entered ( differ for each group ). The database will be updated by clicking the  
add button.  
Task  10: Search  for a product to  modify  or delete . 
Authenticated managers  can search for a product to modify or delete. The database 
will be updated by clicking the  modify or delete button.  
 Task11: D isplay address and location map  
The address of the shop and a Google  location map will be displayed in the contact 
us page.  
Google map is a web service that you can add to your web application for free by 
creating a Google  account.   
  
Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University   CIS 311: Web -based Systems     
College of Computer Science & IT          Course Project  
  Term 2  2025-26 
 
4 
 Task12: Past purchases  
Returning customers will see their past purchases on the main web page. Cookies 
should be  used to achieve this functionality.  
Task1 3: Forms Validation  
Every form must be validated using JavaScript.  
Task  14: Help window  
Include a pop up help window in the product details page suitable to your project.  
Task  15: Accessibility  
Make sure your web page is accessible by disabled users.   
Task1 6: Efficiency  
Make sure your code is efficient (use of functions, avoid reputation, use of include…).  
Task 17: Implication of Project  
You have to add implications of the project on business organization which will 
include the following points:  
1. What are the issues faced by that organization which are going to be 
solved through your website?  
2. What are the technological features that you have included in the website 
to solve these problems?  
3. List down additional problems/challenges that may result due to your 
system.  
4. How the tools used in project helped you to design an appropriate 
system?  
 
 
 
 
Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University   CIS 311: Web -based Systems     
College of Computer Science & IT          Course Project  
  Term 2  2025-26 
 
5 
 Submission  instructions  
Milestones  
Milestone  Due date  
Proposal + group formation +assigning leader and tasks  [ 2 Documents 
to be Submitted, Resume + Contract]  Sat, 21 Feb 2026  
Web interface + tables filled with data + hardcopy of tables +ER design  Sat, 11 Apr 2026  
60% implementation of project  Sat, 2 May 2026  
Final complete project + presentation (15 -20 mints) + report (pdf ) Sun,  17 May 20 26  
 
Report  
The report should include the following  
1. Report cover including project title, team members,  major (CS, CIS),  section, 
group # (according to blackboard)  and date  
2. How work was divided between members.  
3. Database design + tables + ER design  
4. Web application Interface.  
5. Fulfilled requirements  (specify tasks that work properly, tasks that you tried 
but didn’t succeed and tasks that you haven’t’ done)  
6. Testing cases (that covers all the assigned tasks) + print screens  
7. Project Implications  
Important:  Every group is expected to submit their project (web application) + 
soft copy of their report (pdf file) using the blackboard.  
Notes  
1. More tasks might be assigned  or changed  through the semester.  
2. Code must be commented.  
3. The author of every  task must be documented (as a comment)   
4. Late projects will result  in mark deduction.   
5. Make sure the code is your own work. Cheating can result in a zero grade for 
the whole project.  
6. Every team is expected to divide the work evenly between members (team 
leader responsibility). Group members will receive the same mark. In case 
some members output is not as expected by their group; their work will be 
graded based on their covered tasks. Hence, they will not receive the same 
group mark.   
Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University   CIS 311: Web -based Systems     
College of Computer Science & IT          Course Project  
  Term 2  2025-26 
 
6 
 7.  Students will divide themselves in teams (mentioning their skills, roles and 
part in the teamwork). (template attached ) 
8. Team will sign a contract against the provided information to achieve the 
teamwork. (template provided). (submit as a proposal with the Resume ) 
 
 

--- Reading Milestone 2 Rubric - Tagged.pdf ---
Imam Abdulrahman Al Faisal University CIS 311: Web-based Systems
College of Computer Science & IT        Term 2 2025-26
CIS 423: Web-based SystemsCIS 311: Web-based Systems Project
Milestone#2 Feedback - Group (    ) Team #  – Topic:  
Team Grade:         / 7
Overall comments on your MS#2 submission:
Database (1 Mark)
Table product Important fields
Table admin Important fields
Primary keys
Image as file name (1/8)
Interface Functionality (3.5 Marks) every  
2 missing points by 1/8
List products with images, cart image
Product  detail  include  price,  quantity  and  
help
Check out delete, modify, delete all, buy
Admin log in
Admin add product include image upload
Admin modify product include image upload
Admin delete product
Admin search
Admin logout
Contact us map + location
Logical flow (0.5 Mark)
Click on product take to product detail, then  
checkout.  click  on  cart  take  to  checkout.  
contact us (1/4)
Click admin, click login, click add, modify,  
delete (1/4)
Teamwork (2 Marks)
1
